You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
Your wisdom best shall think.
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
your table!
Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
your friend.
your bounty. Take them in.
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone  
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
You promis'd me to wed.'
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
you nine year.
Young men will do't if they come to't
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
You must not take for fire. From this time
You must not put another scandal on him,
You mainly were stirr'd up.
You laying these slight sullies on my son
You know the wager?
you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
You go not till I set you up a glass
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You do remember all the circumstance?
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
you cannot play upon me.
You cannot call it love; for at your age
You, as your business and desires shall point you,
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
You are the most immediate to our throne,
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Yet I,
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Yes, faith, heartily.
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
would perhaps trouble a woman.
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;  
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
world.
work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
With which she followed my poor father's body
With variable objects, shall expel
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With true-love showers.
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
With this regard their currents turn awry
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With sore distraction. What I have done
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
Without the sensible and true avouch
Without more motive, into every brain
Without debatement further, more or less,
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
Within the centre.
Within the book and volume of my brain,
within 's two hours.
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd  
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With all the strength and armour of the mind
With all my love I do commend me to you;
With all my imperfections on my head.
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
Winner and loser?
Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
Will you be rul'd by me?
Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
Will return'd shall know you are come home.
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
Will not debate the question of this straw.
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Why to a public count I might not go
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why does the drum come hither?
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
Whose violent property fordoes itself  
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Who is't that can inform me?
Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Who hath reliev'd you?
Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
which was the model of that Danish seal;
Which was declining on the milky head
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,  
Which now goes too free-footed.
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which I have told thee, of my father's death.  
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
Which bewept to the grave did not go
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Where should We have our thanks?
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
where my abridgment comes.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Where is your son?
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
Where every god did seem to set his seal
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
When we would bring him on to some confession
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
When thou liest howling.
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,  
When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When second husband let me be accurst!
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
When it prov'd otherwise.?
When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
When in your motion you are hot and dry-  
When in one line two crafts directly meet.  
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?  
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
When he himself might his quietus make
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
What we two nights have seen.
What warlike noise is this?
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
What thou hast said to me.
What think you on't?
What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
what part a gentleman would see.
What might you think? No, I went round to work
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste  
What majesty should be, what duty is,
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
What is the reason that you use me thus?
What is the matter?
What is the issue of the business there.  
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
What, is Horatio there ?
What is between you? Give me up the truth.
What I have said to you.
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
What does this mean, my lord?
What company, at what expense; and finding
We would not understand what was most fit,
We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
We should profane the service of the dead
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
We shall express our duty in his eye;
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
went to cuffs in the question.
We must with all our majesty and skill
We may of their encounter frankly judge
well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
We'll put the matter to the present push.-
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
Welcome, my good friends.
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
We go to gain a little patch of ground
we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
We cannot get from him.  
We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
waterfly?
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Voltemand, courtier.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
very liberal conceit.
very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
Upon whose property and most dear life
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor  
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto that element; but long it could not be
Unto our climature and countrymen.
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
(Unless things mortal move them not at all)
Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
Two Clowns, gravediggers.
'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Truly deliver.
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
Treachery! Seek it out.
Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene  
tragedians of the city.
To you yourself, to us, to every one.  
To youth and liberty.
To you in satisfaction; but if not,  
To you alone.
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To what I shall unfold.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
To those of mine!
To the unsatisfied.
To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
To the ambassadors of England gives
To tell us this.
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
To tell my story.         [March afar off, and shot within.]
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To show us so much gentry and good will
To show my duty in your coronation,  
To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
To put an antic disposition on),  
To punish me with this, and this with me,
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
To offer it the show of violence;
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
To muddy death.
To mine own room again; making so bold  
to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;  
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make it truster of your own report
To let you know of it.
To let this canker of our nature come
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To lay our service freely at your feet,
[To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
To keep those many many bodies safe
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To his unmast'red importunity.
To his confine; and of the truth herein
To him from whom you brought them.                   Exeunt.
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
To heaven.
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
To hear him so inclin'd.
To hear and see the matter.
To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
To give the world assurance of a man.
To give these mourning duties to your father;
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
To give it due content.
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
Together with that fair and warlike form
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
To exploit now ripe in my device,
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
To England send him; or confine him where
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever  
To desperation turn my trust and hope,
To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
To cast thee up again. What may this mean  
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
To business with the King, more than the scope
To both your honours.
To be your Valentine.
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,  
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To be commanded.
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,  
To any pastime?
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
'Tis strange.
'Tis now the very witching time of night,
'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,  
'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
Till by some elder masters of known honour
Thy natural magic and dire property
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
Thus runs the world away.
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
'Thus didest thou.'
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,  
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
[Throws up a skull.]
Throws up [another skull].
Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright  
Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
Thou know'st already.
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
This warlike volley.
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
This sudden sending him away must seem
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
This something-settled matter in his heart,
This realm dismantled was  
This present object made probation.
This presence knows,
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
This night to play before him.
This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
This marvel to you.
This man shall set me packing.
This mad young man. But so much was our love
This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This grave shall have a living monument.
this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
This bodiless creation ecstasy
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This above all- to thine own self be true,
thirty years.
Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
(Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
Th' important acting of your dread command?
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
[They swear.]
They shall go far with little.  
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
they'll tell all.
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
They had begun the play. I sat me down;
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
They bore him barefac'd on the bier
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
they?
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
The which he loved passing well.'
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
The violence of either grief or joy
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
The unseen good old man.
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,  
The triumph of his pledge.
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
The terms of our estate may not endure
The tedious day with sleep.
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
the stair, into the lobby.
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
These hands are not more like.
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
The safety and health of this whole state,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
There with fantastic garlands did she come
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
There, my lord.
There lives within the very flame of love
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
There is a play to-night before the King.
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Therefore let's follow.
Therefore I have entreated him along,  
There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
The ratifiers and props of every word,
The rather, if you could devise it so
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
The Queen's closet.
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
the puppets dallying.
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;  
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
the players ready.
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
The origin and commencement of his grief
the only men.
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
Then, venom, to thy work.                    Hurts the King.
Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
The need we have to use you did provoke
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The light and careless livery that it wears
The leperous distilment; whose effect
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
[The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
The King is a thing-
the King.
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
The inward service of the mind and soul
The instant burst of clamour that she made
The insolence of office, and the spurns
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The head is not more native to the heart,
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The hart ungalled play;
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
the guts of a beggar.
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
The form of plausive manners, that these men
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
Th' effect of what I wrote?
the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
THE END
The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
The Devil himself.
The death I gave him. So again, good night.
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The cock crows.
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
The changeling never known. Now, the next day  
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The bell then beating one-
The bark is ready and the wind at help,
[The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
The apparition comes. I knew your father.
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
That youth and observation copied there,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
That we find out the cause of this effect-
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That was and is the question of these wars.
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
That treason can but peep to what it would,
That to the use of actions fair and good
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
That thus he suffers for.
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
That show of such an exercise may colour
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
That our devices still are overthrown;
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
That might your nature, honour, and exception
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
That makes calamity of so long life.
That looks so many fadoms to the sea
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
That I must call't in question.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That I might be the organ.
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That, if again this apparition come,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
That he which hath your noble father slain
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That he is open to incontinency.
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
That has no relish of salvation in't-
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation  
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That ever I was born to set it right!
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
That capability and godlike reason
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
That both the world, I give to negligence,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,  
That are so fortified against our story,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
Than your particular demands will touch it.
Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Than to entreaty.
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Than that which dearest father bears his son
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
tenants.
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
tell me one thing.
tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
take longer time.
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
Swear.
Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
Such was the very armour he had on
Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?  
Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
strumpet. What news ?
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
stopping a bunghole?
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Stick fiery off indeed.
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Spreads his arms.
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
spent.
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
Speak to me.
Speak to me.  
Speak to her, Hamlet.
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
Speak, man.
Speak loudly for him.
speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
So, proceed you.
So oft it chances in particular men
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So much from th' understanding of himself,
So much as from occasion you may glean,  
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
Some little time; so by your companies
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
So levied as before, against the Polack;
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
So horridly to shake our disposition
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
So far from cheer and from your former state.
So excellent a king, that was to this
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
So, by my former lecture and advice,
So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
So bloodily hast struck.
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
skull, the King's jester.
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
[Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]  
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
Sir, in this audience,
sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
(Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
(Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
[Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
(Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,  
[Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
[Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,  
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
Should have a back or second, that might hold
should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.  
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
shipwright, or the carpenter?
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
shame and the odd hits.
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
Shall in the general censure take corruption
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose  
shall be the end of my business.
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
sense.
See you now-
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
seeks her own salvation?
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
Scene VII.
Scene VI.
Scene V.
Scene V.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
SCENE.- Elsinore.
[Scatters flowers.]
scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
say-
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
Sailor. God bless you, sir.
Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.  
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Rough-hew them how we will-
Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Ros. We think not so, my lord.
Ros. We shall, my lord.
Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
Ros. To what end, my lord?
Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
Ros. Then is the world one.
Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Ros. No indeed are they not.  
Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Ros. Neither, my lord.
Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
Ros. My most dear lord!
Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.  
Ros. Most like a gentleman.
Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
Ros. Good my lord!
Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Rosencrantz, courtier.
Ros. Both your Majesties
Ros. Believe what?
Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
Rome-
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.  
Richer than that which four successive kings
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
Rey. Well, my lord.
Rey. Very good, my lord.
Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
Rey. My lord, I have.
Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
Rey. I will, my lord.
Rey. I shall, my lord.
Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
Rey. But, my good lord-
Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.  
Rey. Ay, my lord,
Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and  
Rey. As gaming, my lord.
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
[Retires with Horatio.]  
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Requite him for your father.  
reputation and profit, was better both ways.
Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Repast them with my blood.
repair hither and say you are not fit.
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
Receiv'd his love?
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
[Reads] the letter.
[Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
[Reads.]
read, my lord?
rawer breath
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?  
Queen. What would she have?
Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
Queen. What shall I do?
Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
Queen. To whom do you speak this?
Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
Queen. This is mere madness;
Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Queen. The instances that second marriage move
Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.  
Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
Queen. So he does indeed.
Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,  
Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
Queen. O, speak to me no more!
Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Queen. O my son, what theme?  
Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
Queen. O, confound the rest!
Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
Queen. No more!
Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
Queen. More matter, with less art.
Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
Queen. Let her come in.  
Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
Queen. I will not speak with her.
Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
Queen. it may be, very like.
Queen. I shall obey you;
Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
Queen. If it be,
Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
Queen. How now, Ophelia?
Queen. How fares my lord?
Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!  
Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
Queen. Have you forgot me?
Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
Queen. Did you assay him  
Queen. Did he receive you well?
Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
Queen. But not by him!
Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
Queen. Ay me, what act,
Queen. Ay, amen!
Queen. As kill a king?
Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
Queen. Alas, how is't with you,  
Queen. Alas, he's mad!
Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
Queen. Alack,
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
Put your dread pleasures more into command
[Puts down the skull.]
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
Pursued my life.
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
purpose, confess thyself-
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
Priest. No more be done.
Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
Prepare to play.
pray You Pass with your best violence;
Pray you be round with him.
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
Pours the poison in his ears.
pound! Didst perceive?
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
Pol. What said he?
Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
Pol. What follows then, my lord?
Pol. What do you think of me?
Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
Pol. Very like a whale.
Pol. Upon my honour-
Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
Pol. 'Tis most true;
Pol. This is too long.
Pol. This business is well ended.
Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
Pol. That's very true, my lord.
Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
Pol. That hath made him mad.
Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
[Polonius hides behind the arras.]
Polonius.
Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.  
Pol. Not I, my lord.
Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Pol. Marry, well bethought!
Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
Pol. Mad for thy love?  
Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,  
Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
Pol. I have, my lord.
Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
Pol. Honest, my lord?
Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]  
Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
Pol. Give o'er the play.
Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
Pol. Farewell!
Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
Pol. Come, sirs.
Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
Pol. And let him ply his music.
Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
plunge him into far more choler.
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
Pleasant and helpful to him!
1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
Play something like the murther of my father
1. Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
Players.
Player. I warrant your honour.
Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
1. Play. Ay, my lord.
1. Play. Ay, my lord.
1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
pick'd out of ten thousand.
phrase.
philosophy could find it out.
Perpend.
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
Passing through nature to eternity.  
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
Over the nasty sty!
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
O, vengeance!
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,  
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Out of his lunacies.
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
O thou vile king,
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
Other. Why, 'tis found so.
Other. Why, he had none.
Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
Other. Was he a gentleman?
Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand  
Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
Other. Marry, now I can tell!
Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
Other. Go to!
O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
Other. But is this law?
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
O, step between her and her fighting soul
Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
Osr. Sir?
Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
Osr. Rapier and dagger.
Osr. Of Laertes?
Osr. Nothing neither way.
Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
Osric, courtier.
Osr. How is't, Laertes?
Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
Osr. Ay, my good lord.
Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
O, speak!
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
O, say!
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd  
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
(O royal knavery!), an exact command,
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Or not at all.
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
Or like a creature native and indued
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?  
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd  
or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or for some frontier?
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
Oph. You are merry, my lord.
Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
Oph. What means your lordship?
Oph. What means this, my lord?
Oph. What is, my lord?
Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.  
Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
Oph. The King rises.
Oph. Still better, and worse.
Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.  
Oph. (Sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
Oph. Pray you mark.
Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
Oph. No, my lord.
Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
Oph. No more but so?
Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
Oph. My lord, I do not know,
Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Oph. My lord?
Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
Oph. I was the more deceived.
Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Oph. Good my lord,
Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
Ophelia,'-
Oph. Do you doubt that?
Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. At home, my lord.
Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
on't.
On such regards of safety and allowance
On plots and errors happen.
on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
One word more, good lady.
One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
'One fair daughter, and no more,
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
O most pernicious woman!
O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
O, ho!
O heavy burthen!
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
O good Horatio, what a wounded name
(O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,  
Of those effects for which I did the murther-
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
Of the unworthiest siege.
Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
Of my true mother.
Of mine own eyes.  
Of mighty opposites.
of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
Of man and country-
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
Of his true state.
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
Of his behaviour.
Of his affection to me.
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
Of him that brought them.
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
Of general assault.  
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
Of blue Olympus.
Of bell and burial.
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
of a king?
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,  
O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
O, a Pit of clay for to be made  
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
Now wears his crown.
'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
Now, out of this-
Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
Now I am alone.  
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Now falls on Priam.
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
not so wildly from my affair.
Not shriving time allow'd.
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
Not of that dye which their investments show,
not off.
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
not.
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
No, no, he is dead;  
No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
None wed the second but who killed the first.
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No more, sweet Hamlet!
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
No more.
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No.
Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
Never to speak of this that you have heard:
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
Never departed more.
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
Near Elsinore.
Nay, come, let's go together.  
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,  
My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
My uncle?
My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
My tables! Meet it is I set it down
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
My operant powers their functions leave to do.
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you  
My lord, not I.
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
my leave of you.
My head should be struck off.
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
(My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My father- methinks I see my father.
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
My custom always of the afternoon,
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
musty.
Must render up myself.
Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
Must give us pause. There's the respect
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
much approve me. Well, sir?  
Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
Most throughly for my father.
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
Most holy and religious fear it is
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
Most free in his reply.
more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
More than in words?
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
More relative than this. The play's the thing
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
more, ha?
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
mine.
mind.
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
might it not?
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
me, whether you were sent for or no.  
Methought it was very sweet;
Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.  
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
May sweep to my revenge.
May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
May give his saying deed; which is no further
May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
May do t' express his love and friending to you,
May be a devil; and the devil hath power
master's daughter.
Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
Mar. 'Tis gone!
Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
Mar. Question it, Horatio.
Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Mar. O, wonderful!
Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
Mar. Nor I, my lord.
Mar. No, it is struck.
Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Mar. My good lord!
Mar. Lord Hamlet!
Mar. Look with what courteous action
Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
Mark you,
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
Mar. It is offended.
Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Mar. Is it not like the King?
Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
[March within.]
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
Marcellus, Officer.
Marcellus, officer.
(Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
Marcellus?
Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
man is twice a child.
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
make you ready.
make you at Elsinore?
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
Makes mouths at the invisible event,  
[Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,  
love passing well.
Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
Lords Attendant.
lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
Look you, I'll go pray.
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Looking before and after, gave us not
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
liquor.
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places  
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,  
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
[Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
life,
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of  
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Let me be no assistant for a state,  
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him  
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.  
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
Leave us.
leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
Leaps in the grave.
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
Last, and as such containing as all these,
Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
Larded all with sweet flowers;
laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
Laer. You mock me, sir.
Laer. Why ask you this?
Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
Laer. Where is my father?
Laer. What part is that, my lord?
Laer. What out of this, my lord?
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. Well, again!
Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
Laer. Think it no more.
Laer. The devil take thy soul!
Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
[Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
Laertes, son to Polonius.
'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
[Laertes falls.]
Laertes before you fall to play.  
Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.
Laer. O, treble woe
Laer. O, fear me not!
Laer. None but his enemies.
Laer. No.
Laer. My will, not all the world!
Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
Laer. My dread lord,
Laer. Must there no more be done?
Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Laer. Let this be so.
Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
Laer. Know you the hand?
Laer. I will do't!
Laer. It well appears. But tell me
Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
Laer. I pray you give me leave.
Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
Laer. How now? What noise is that?
Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
Laer. He is justly serv'd.
Laer. Have at you now!
Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
Laer. Do you see this, O God?
Laer. Come, one for me.
Laer. Come, my lord.                                They play.
Laer. Ay my lord,
Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
Laer. A Norman was't?
Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
know a hawk from a handsaw.
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
King. Will you know them then?
King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
King. Why, now You speak
King. Who shall stay you?
King. Where is Polonius?
King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
King. What is the cause, Laertes,
King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
King. What do you call the play?
King. What dost thou mean by this?  
King. We will try it.
King. Well, we shall sift him.
King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
King. The very same.
King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
King. The doors are broke.
King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
King. Thanks, dear my lord.
King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
King. So you shall;
King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
King. She sounds to see them bleed.
King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
King. Pretty Ophelia!
King. Pluck thein asunder.
King. Part them! They are incens'd.
King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
King. Our son shall win.
King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
King. O heavy deed!
King. O Gertrude, come away!
King. O, for two special reasons,
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
King. Not that I know.
King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;  
King. Let's further think of this,
King. Let's follow, Gertrude.  
King. Let him demand his fill.
King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
King. It shall be so.
King. It likes us well;
King. It falls right.
King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
King. If it be so, Laertes
King. I do not think't.
King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
King. How may we try it further?
King. How long hath she been thus?
King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
King. How do you, pretty lady?
King. He made confession of you;
King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
King. Good Laertes,
King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
King. Give me some light! Away!
King. Gertrude, do not drink.
King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;  
King. Do you think 'tis this?
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
King. Dead.
King. Conceit upon her father.
King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
King. But where is he?
King. But how hath she
King. Bring him before us.
King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
King. Ay, Hamlet.
King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
King. At supper? Where?
King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
King. A Norman.
King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
King. Alas, alas!
kill'd me.
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
I would know that.
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It waves you to a more removed ground.
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
It warms the very sickness in my heart
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It sends some precious instance of itself
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
it not?
it means, say you this:
It may be death.
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
It lifted up it head and did address
it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
It is most retrograde to our desire;
it is but a shadow's shadow.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'  
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
i' th' university, you say?
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
It had been so with us, had we been there.
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
It could not move thus.  
'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
it. Adieu.
Is very cunning in.
Is thought-sick at the act.
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
Is not to stir without great argument,
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
I should have fatted all the region kites
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
I shall not look upon his like again.
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Is by a forged process of my death
is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
I pray you, now receive them.
I pray you go with me.
I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
In youth when I did love, did love,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
into England.
Into a tow'ring passion.
into a toil?
In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
In the dead vast and middle of the night
In the corrupted currents of this world
insert in't, could you not?
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
In obstinate condolement is a course
innovation.
In noise so rude against me?
In neither aught, or in extremity.
in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
In honourable fashion.
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
In general synod take away her power;
In further evil?
In filial obligation for some term
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
I never gave you aught.
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
In censure of his seeming.
I must be cruel, only to be kind;
Importing the surrender of those lands
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
I'll visit you.
I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
I'll rant as well as thou.
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,  
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe  
I have sworn't.
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
I have in quick determination
I have a voice and precedent of peace
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
I ha't!
I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
I had my father's signet in my purse,
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his  
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
If you desire to know the certainty
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
If there be any good thing to be done,
if that his Majesty would aught with us,
If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
If I had play'd the desk or table book,
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
If his chief good and market of his time
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If by direct or by collateral hand
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
I do not know from what part of the world
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
I did repel his letters and denied
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
I could not but by her. The other motive
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.  
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
I be so able as now.
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
humanity so abominably.
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now  
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
How these things came about. So shall You hear
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
How should I your true-love know
How now? What news?
How now, sweet queen?
How now O What hath befall'n?
How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
How much I had to do to calm his rage I
How in my words somever she be shent,
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
How does your honour for this many a day?
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
How all occasions do inform against me
Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
Hor. You might have rhym'd.
Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
Hor. Why, what a king is this!
Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Hor. What's that, my lord?
Hor. What news, my lord?
Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
Hor. What is it you will see?
Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
Hor. Well, sit we down,
Hor. Well, my lord.
Hor. Very well, my lord.
Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.  
Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Hor. 'Tis here!
Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.  
Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Hor. That is most certain.
Hor. That can I.
Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Hor. Season your admiration for a while
Hor. Remember it, my lord!
Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.  
Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
Hor. O, where, my lord?
Hor. O, my dear lord!
Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
Hor. Not when I saw't.
Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
Hor. Not from his mouth,
Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
Hor. No, by no means!
Hor. Never believe it.
Hor. Nay, very pale.
Hor. Nay, good my lord -
Hor. My lord, the King your father.
Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Hor. My lord, I did;
Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
Hor. Most constantly.
Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
Hor. Let them come in.
Hor. Let him bless thee too.
Hor. I warr'nt it will.
Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
Hor. It might, my lord.
Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
Hor. Is't possible?
Hor. Is it a custom?
Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.  
Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
Hor. In faith,
Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
Hor. I did very well note him.
Hor. I beseech you.
Hor. How was this seal'd?
Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Hor. Heaven will direct it.
Hor. Heaven secure him!
Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
Hor. Half a share.
Hor. Hail to your lordship!
Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
Hor. Friends to this ground.
Hor. E'en so, my lord.
Hor. E'en so.
Hor. Do not, my lord!
Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
Hor. Ay, my lord.
Hor. Ay, good my lord.
Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
Hor. As thou art to thyself.
Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;  
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
Hor. A piece of him.
Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing  
Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
Hold you the watch to-night?
hold up Adam's profession.
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
hither?
his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
His silence will sit drooping.
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
His means of death, his obscure funeral-
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
his love.
His liberty is full of threats to all-
his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
His beard was as white as snow,
his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
His access to me.
himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
High on a stage be placed to the view;
(Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
[He] sleeps.
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
Her mood will needs be pitied.
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Her father and myself (lawful espials)
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here's to thy health.
Here stooping to your clemency,
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
Here in the lobby.
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.  
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Her brother is in secret come from France;
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
He never will come again.
He never gave commandment for their death.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
help to hasten them?
Help, help, ho!
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
He is gone, he is gone,
He is dead and gone;
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
He falls to such perusal of my face
Hecuba.
He closes with you in this consequence:
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
He answers:
he.
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Have you so slander any moment leisure
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
have sent for you.
have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
have not the skill.
have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
hath sent me to you.
Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd  
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
Hath clawed me in his clutch,
hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
Haply the seas, and countries different,
Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
Ham. You are welcome.
Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Ham. Words, words, words.
Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
Ham. With drink, sir?
Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!  
Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Ham. Why he more than another?
Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
Ham. Why,
Ham. Why?
Ham. Why,
Ham. Whose was it?
Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
Ham. Who, I?
Ham. Who commands them, sir?
Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
Ham. What woman then?
Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
Ham. What's the matter now?
Ham. What's his weapon?
Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
Ham. What hour now?
Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
Ham. What did you enact?
Ham. What call you the carriages?
Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
Ham. What?
Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
Ham. Very well, my lord.
Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?  
Ham. Upon what ground?
Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Ham. Upon my sword.
Ham. Up from my cabin,
Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
Ham. 'Tis very strange.
Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Ham. This?
Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I  
Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.  
Ham. These tedious old fools!
Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
Ham. The point envenom'd too?
Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
Ham. Then saw you not his face?
Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
Ham. The King my father?
Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
Ham. That is Laertes,
Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
Ham. Such an act
Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
Ham. So be it!
Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
Ham. Sir, I cannot.
Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I  
Ham. Sir, a whole history.
Ham. She well instructs me.
Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
Ham. Saw? who?
Ham. Safely stow'd.
Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
Ham. Pale or red?
Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
Ham. Or like a whale.
Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
Ham. One.
Ham. O my prophetic soul!
Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
Ham. O God!
Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
Ham. Of him, sir.
Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
Ham. No, you will reveal it.
Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
Ham. Nothing.
Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
Ham. No, not I!
Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
Ham. No, by this bad.  
Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Ham. Nay, that follows not.
Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
Ham. Nay, I know not.
Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.  
Ham. Nay, but to live
Ham. Nay, but swear't.
Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
Ham. My fate cries out
Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
Ham. Murther?
Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.  
Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
[Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,  
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
'HAMLET.'
HAMLET.'
Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Ham. Judgment!
Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
Ham. I would I had been there.
Ham. I will watch to-night.
Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
Ham. I will.
Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
Ham. It waves me still.
Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
Ham. Is't possible?
Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
Ham. I pray you.
Ham. Into my grave?
Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
Ham. In happy time.
Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
Ham. I must to England; you know that?
Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.  
Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
Ham. If she should break it now!
Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
Ham. I embrace it freely,
Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
Ham. I do beseech you.
Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
Ham. I beseech you remember.
Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-  
Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
Ham. I am glad to see you well.
Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
Ham. How strangely?
Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
Ham. How long is that since?
Ham. How is it with you, lady?
Ham. How if I answer no?
Ham. How does the Queen?
Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
Ham. How came he mad?
Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Ham. Hold off your hands!
Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
Ham. He will stay till you come.
Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.  
Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Ham. Hear you, sir!
Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
Ham. Good madam!
Ham. Good.  
Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
Ham. From top to toe?
Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god  
Ham. For God's love let me hear!
Ham. For England?
Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
Ham. Ecstasy?
Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
Ham. Do you see nothing there?
Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
Ham. Do the boys carry it away?  
Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Ham. Do not believe it.
Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
Ham. Did you not speak to it?
Ham. Denmark's a prison.
Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief  
Ham. Come on, sir.
Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
Ham. Buzz, buzz!
Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
Ham. But where was this?
Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
Ham. Between who?
Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,  
Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
Ham.   A whole one I!
Ham. At supper.
Ham. As woman's love.
Ham. As th'art a man,
Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
Ham. Arm'd, say you?
Ham. Are you fair?
Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
Guil. What should we say, my lord?
Guil. What, my lord?
Guil. We will ourselves provide.
guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.  
Guil. There are the players.
Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
Guil. The King, sir-
Guil. Prison, my lord?  
Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
Guil. My lord, I cannot.
Guil. My honour'd lord!
Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.  
Guil. In what, my dear lord?
Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
Guil. Faith, her privates we.
Guildenstern, courtier.
Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
Guil. But we both obey,
Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
Guil. A thing, my lord?
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,  
Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
grave-making?
grave.]
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
[Grapples with him].
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
Go to thy deathbed;
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Go on. I'll follow thee.
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
Good night, mother.
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Gonzago'?
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
God bless you, sir!
God 'a'mercy on his soul!
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
Giving to you no further personal power
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
Give you good night.                                   Exit.
Give us the foils. Come on.
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
[Gives a paper.]
given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
Given private time to you, and you yourself
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
Give me one poor request.
Give me my father!
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
Give him the cup.
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
Ghost. Swear.
Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
Ghost. My hour is almost come,
Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
Ghost. Mark me.
Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
Ghost. I find thee apt;
Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
Ghost cries under the stage.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost beckons Hamlet.
[Ghost beckons.]  
Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
Get you a place.
Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
gentleman.'
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
further trade with us?
full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
From me, whose love was of that dignity
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
From another one?
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts  
freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
Fran. Give you good night.
Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
Francisco, a soldier
Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
Fran. Bernardo?
for your succession in Denmark?
For your desire to know what is between us,
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
(For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
For what we know must be, and is as common
For what advancement may I hope from thee,  
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Fort. Where is this sight?
fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Fort. Let us haste to hear it,  
Fort. Let four captains
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.  
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
For this effect defective comes by cause.
For they are actions that a man might play;
For the supply and profit of our hope,
(for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
For such a guest is meet.
For such a guest is meet.
(For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
For out o' doors he went without their help
For nature crescent does not grow alone
For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
For in the fatness of these pursy times
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
For if the King like not the comedy,
For husband shalt thou-
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
For he himself is subject to his birth.
For Hecuba!
For. Go softly on.
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
For food and diet, to some enterprise
For every man hath business and desire,
for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
For England.
Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
For by the image of my cause I see
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,  
For art and exercise in your defence,
For and a shrouding sheet;
Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
Flourish for the Players.
Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
fay, I cannot reason.
favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
favours?
father?
Fare you well, my dove!
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
Farewell, dear mother.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Farewell.
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
eyes. Prithee no more!
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
[Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
[Exit Second Clown.]  
Exit Reynaldo.
[Exit Queen.]
[Exit Polonius.]
Exit [Polonius].  
Exit [Polonius].
Exit Messenger.
[Exit Lord.]
[Exit Horatio.]  
Exit Horatio.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
[Exit Gentleman.]
[Exit First Player.]
[Exit Attendant.]
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
Exeunt Players.
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
Exeunt King and Polonius].
Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
Exeunt Gentlemen.
[Exeunt Attendants.]
Exeunt [all but the Captain].
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]  
Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
ere you had done.
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
Enter young Osric, a courtier.
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.  
Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
Enter the Players with recorders.  
Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
Enter Sailors.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz.
Enter Queen and Polonius.
Enter Queen.
Enter Prologue.
Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.  
Enter Polonius.
Enter Ophelia distracted.
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia.  
Enter Lucianus.
Enter Laertes with others.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter King and Polonius.
Enter King and Laertes.
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.  
Enter Horatio.
Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Enter Ghost again.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Ghost.
Enter four or five Players.
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
Enter a Messenger with letters.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter a Lord.
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
English Ambassadors.
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
end.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. A churchyard.
Elsinore.
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
[Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
Dramatis Personae
Drabbing. You may go so far.
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Doubt truth to be a liar;
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent  
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Does by their own insinuation grow.
do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
discretion.
discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
discourse to your beauty.
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw  
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
died. They say he made a good end.
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;  
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Did nothing.
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own  
Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
defence?
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
dare scarce come thither.
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Could not (with all their quantity of love)
Could not so mope.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,  
Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
Cornelius, courtier.
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
Consent to swear.
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
Come, some music!
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
Come short of what he did.
Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
Come hither, gentlemen,
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Come.
Colours, and Attendants.
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy  
Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
Clown. Very strangely, they say.
Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
Clown. To't.
Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
Clown. (Sings)
Clown. (sings)
Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
Clown. Mine, sir.
Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
Clown. For none neither.
Clown. For no man, sir.
Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Clown. E'en that.
[Clown digs and] sings.
Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
clouts.
Claudius, King of Denmark.
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,  
city? Are they so follow'd?
church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
carrying torches.
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.  
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
carpenter?
Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Capt. I will do't, my lord.
Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
Capt. Against some part of Poland.  
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
Can you advise me?
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
by William Shakespeare
By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
By this encompassment and drift of question
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
By letters congruing to that effect,
By laboursome petition, and at last
By indirections find directions out.
By his cockle bat and' staff
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
By Cock, they are to blame.
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
But you shall hear. Thus:
But you must know, your father lost a father;
But you'll be secret?
But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword  
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
But what we do determine oft we break.
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
But truly I do fear it.
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But to my mind, though I am native here  
But to confront the visage of offence?
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
But this eternal blazon must not be
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
But that the dread of something after death-
But that I know love is begun by time,
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
But, orderly to end where I begun,  
But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
But never doubt I love.
But mere implorators of unholy suits,  
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But let that go.
But let me hear from you.
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But keep a farm and carters.
But I will delve one yard below their mines
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
But in battalions! First, her father slain;
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
But I have that within which passeth show-
But if you hold it fit, after the play
But if the gods themselves did see her then,
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
But I do prophesy th' election lights  
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
But he's an arrant knave.
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
But farewell it, for I will use no art.  
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice  
But do not go with it!
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
But come!
But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
But better look'd into, he truly found
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
But, as we often see, against some storm,
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
But age with his stealing steps
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Break we our watch up; and by my advice  
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
Both. We will haste us.
Both. We'll wait upon you.  
Both to my God and to my gracious king;
Both. My lord, we will not.
Both. My lord, from head to foot.
Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
Both. Longer, longer.
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.  
Both. Arm'd, my lord.
bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?  
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Be you and I behind an arras then.
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
Between the pass and fell incensed points
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
Ber. Who's there.?
Ber. Well, good night.
Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
Ber. 'Tis here!
Ber. Sit down awhile,
Ber. See, it stalks away!
Ber. Say-
Bernardo, officer.
Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
Ber. Long live the King!
Ber. Last night of all,
Ber. It would be spoke to.
Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.  
Ber. I have seen nothing.
Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
Ber. He.
Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
be otherwise.
bellow for revenge.
Believe so much in him, that he is young,
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
Being a thing immortal as itself?  
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Before You visit him, to make inquire
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
Be all my sins rememb'red.
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
Away! for everything is seal'd and done
Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
A villain kills my father; and for that,
A very, very- pajock.
A very noble youth. Mark.
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
Attendants].
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
At his heels a stone.
At his head a grass-green turf,
a thing to you from his Majesty.
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
A table and flagons of wine on it.  
as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
As will not leave their tinct.
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
As to peace-parted souls.
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
As to expend your time with us awhile
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
As therein are set down.
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
A station like the herald Mercury
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
As one incapable of her own distress,
As oft as any passion under heaven
As of a father; for let the world take note
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
As make your bouts more violent to that end-
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
As low as to the fiends!
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As level as the cannon to his blank,
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.  
As it is common for the younger sort
As it hath us'd to do- that I have found  
As it doth well appear unto our state,
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
(As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
(As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
As infinite as man may undergo-  
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
As if it some impartment did desire
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if I had never been such.
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As I do thee. Something too much of this I
[Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
(As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
As he is very potent with such spirits,
As he in his particular act and place
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
As from the body of contraction plucks  
As fits a king's remembrance.
As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
As England was his faithful tributary,
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
A second time I kill my husband dead
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
As day does to your eye.
A scullion!  
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
'As by lot, God wot,'
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
As are companions noted and most known
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
A sable silver'd.
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.  
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
A room in the Castle.
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
are unwrung.
are shot off.  
are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
Are most select and generous, chief in that.
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
Are joyfully return'd.
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid  
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
A Priest.
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
Appears before them and with solemn march
A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
An understanding simple and unschool'd;
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
Answer, and think upon this business.
A Norwegian Captain.
Anon, as patient as the female dove
A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
A noise within.
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
And You must put me in your heart for friend,
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
And with no less nobility of love
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
And with a look so piteous in purport
And with a larger tether may he walk
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
And will not wrong it.
And will not let belief take hold of him
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
And when you are desirous to be blest,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And we cast away moan.
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
And vanish'd from our sight.
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And to the last bended their light on me.
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
And thus the native hue of resolution
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And thus a while the fit will work on him.
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
And they in France of the best rank and station
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant  
And these few precepts in thy memory
And there I see such black and grained spots
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And there assume some other, horrible form
and then, you know,
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And that in way of caution- I must tell you
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-  
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And tell you what I know.
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
And sure I am two men there are not living
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go  
And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
And set a double varnish on the fame
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And recks not his own rede.
And reason panders will.
And put it in his pocket!  
And prologue to the omen coming on,
And prey on garbage.
And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
And pious action we do sugar o'er  
And passion in the gods.'
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And our affairs from England come too late.  
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
And not where I had aim'd them.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
And not have strew'd thy grave.
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And never come mischance between us twain!
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And my imaginations are as foul
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame  
And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
And many such-like as's of great charge,
and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And makes each petty artire in this body
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
And live the purer with the other half,
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
And, like a man to double business bound,
And let us once again assail your ears,
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And let them know both what we mean to do
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And let him know so.
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And keep you in the rear of your affection,  
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And it must follow, as the night the day,
And I the matter will reword; which madness
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And in this brainish apprehension kills
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And in the cup an union shall he throw
And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And I do think- or else this brain of mine
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
And I am sick at heart.
And I a maid at your window,
And hurt my brother.
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
And his sandal shoon.
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And he to England shall along with you.
and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
And hears it roar beneath.
And hath shipped me intil the land,
And hath abatements and delays as many  
And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
And gem of all the nation.
And gave you such a masterly report
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh  
And for your rapier most especially,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
And for his death no wind
And foreign mart for implements of war;
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
And each particular hair to stand an end
And dupp'd the chamber door,
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed  
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
And do't the speedier that you may direct me
And do such bitter business as the day
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And could of men distinguish, her election
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
And carriage of the article design'd,
And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
And call the noblest to the audience.
And call it accident.
And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And break your own neck down.
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And bear it to the chapel.
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,  
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
And, as I think, they have already order
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,  
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
And all we mourn for.  
And after we will both our judgments join
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
Among a mineral of metals base,
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your  
Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
amazement and admiration.
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
All. We will, we will!
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
All. Treason! treason!
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
All. Our duty to your honour.  
All. No, let's come in!
All my smooth body.
All may be well.                                  He kneels.
All. Lights, lights, lights!
All in the morning bedtime,
All given to mine ear.
All. Gentlemen!
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
All flaxen was his poll.
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Alack, and fie for shame!
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
A Gentleman, courtier.
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
Against the which a moiety competent
against their own succession.
again.
After the thing it loves.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
Affront Ophelia.  
affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A face without a heart,'
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
A double blessing is a double grace;
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.  
Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
ACT V. Scene I.
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
ACT IV. Scene I.
ACT I. Scene I.
action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
Act II. Scene I.
ACT III. Scene I.
act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
A combination and a form indeed
a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.  
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
According to the phrase or the addition
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-  
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
